Our website is now ready
to be shared with the world.
We have come such a long way so far
and now we're almost at the end.
So launching our website is step six
out of our seven step plan.
This is super easy to do.
We just need to follow these three steps.
First, we need to choose and buy a domain name.
For our website that could be www.omnifood.com.
Then we need to buy web hosting.
Think of that as a folder in the internet
where we'll put all our files.
In order to ensure that our website runs smoothly,
we need the right amount of ban width
and that is the amount of data transfer we are allowed
within a certain time period.
And once we have both of those things,
we just need to upload our website to our web space.
And then we're ready to go.
Now, there are many, many domain registration companies
and web hosting companies.
Of course I will not tell you which one you should choose.
All I can tell you is that I have used GoDaddy.com
to both register domain names and buy web hosting.
The service there was always great,
but of course I can't tell that it's the best web hosting
out there because I have not tried any other service so far.
But let me just show you the GoDaddy website
and how you could use their product.
So this is the GoDaddy website.
In here we can start by search for domain.
Let me say omnifood here.
So omnifood.com is available and there's an auction for
like almost 800 euros.
But there are other domain names available like
omnifood.net, omnifood.co, or omnifood.org.
Well, again, I will of course not buy any of those
domain names and I will not show you how you can create
an account here or how you can buy a domain names
and all of that.
If you want to do that just go ahead.
It's easy to do and in GoDaddy you can actually buy the
domain and the web space as well.
So now suppose you created an account
and have now a domain and some web space.
Now you want to upload your website, right?
So to show you how this works,
in this video I will upload the website we just created
to the web hosting that I bought for the website
of this course, which is this, by the way.
So it is under construction so far.
So if you have created an account at GoDaddy,
then you can very easily log in to cPanel,
which is where we can manage our account
and the web space and everything like that.
So let me just log in here to show you how this looks like.
Alright, so here we have all kind of stuff.
For example we can create email accounts and we can
manage all kinds of things here.
You see you can there explore by yourself
but what we need for now is first I want to show you
the file manager.
Which is as i said before, like a folder in the the internet
where we will then put all our stuff.
And the folder, so this is our folder and the
website goes inside the public html folder right here.
So how do we upload those files here?
We can actually do that inside of brackets.
So in brackets there is an extension
that we can use to do that.
And all we need for that is an FTP account.
So FTP means file transfer protocol
and this is how we upload files to a web space.
So down here you're probably already have an account,
if you don't then you can create one,
but you probably have one.
So this information here is all we need
to upload our website to the internet.
So let's go back to bracket,
where I will show you a very cool extension.
One more.
So this one is called FTP Snyc Plus.
So you can just go ahead and install that.
As always I already have it.
And then once you have it installed
just hit this icon right here.
Alright and now we need those definitions from the FTP.
So FTP, and now we need the informations.
So we hit here, configure FTP client
and then we have to server.
In my case, this one.
Then the user name,
and then we need to put our password in here.
And then the folder where we want this,
so as I told you before,
I will actually back now, back to the file manager.
The public html folder is where the website will go.
Now in my case I don't want it to be right here
because then I would override all the stuff I already have
here in the public html folder, which is my website,
which I showed to you before.
So this one.
This is the stuff that I have already here
so I create a new folder where I will put
omnifood website just to show you how this works.
So we need to write public html and now I will create
a new folder here for omnifood.
Alright, and then I can hit upload.
So it tells me that the folder does not exist
so I can easily create it
so new folder, omnifood.
So I created a new folder here in my web space
and now I can just hit upload.
So this extension will take all the files and all the
folders from our project folder and upload them to
our web space.
And another cool thing of the extension is that
imagine we only change one file and then if we hit upload
again here, then it only uploads that exact file.
So we can just sit back and watch while brackets does
all the work.
So it's now uploading all our files.
This take a long time so I'll actually make fast forward
in this video so we don't have to watch all of this.
So that's it.
All our files are now uploaded to the internet.
So let me open the folder I just created.
Omnifood and here we go.
Our website is now online on the internet.
And it works.
I mean it works exactly as we did it here on our computer.
So this live version of the website is the
production version and the one on the computer
is the local version.
So now you don't only know how to
create a beautiful website,
now you also know how to optimize it
and how to launch it to the internet.
This is absolutely fantastic.
Now there's only one more thing left that I want to show you
and this about how you can track your users' behavior
in order to improve your website even after launching it.